DEMAR
CRESTAR SIX STORY MOVE YOUR
FALL.
>> GO AHEAD AND SPEAK, OK?
HERE YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN THANK YOU FOR BEING
WITH US ON.
>> THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
IF YOU HEAR ME CLEARLY WOULD BE
A BETTER QUESTION.
>> YES, WE CAN.
OK, VERY GOOD RECEPTION.
I CANNOT HEAR ANY OTHER COUNTRY
I CAN HEAR YOU.
MR. MAYOR, BUT I WILL GO AHEAD
AND PROCEED FIRST OFF, I WANT
TO THANK YOU.
I THINK I REMEMBER REVIEWING
IT.
BE BACK WITH ME REGARDING VATAN
.
>> I DO ASK THAT GIVEN THE
CIRCUMSTANCES STRATEGICALLY
TONIGHT, EVEN WITH WHAT YOU
HAVE AS FAR AS THE HEARING
SITUATION GOES, YOU TAKE THIS
OFF THE AGENDA MEMBERS, OTHER
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT
INTERVIEW THIS WAS A SAFE PLAN
THAT WAS DENIED BY CARPHONE IN
2019.
SUBSEQUENTLY THIS DEVELOPMENT
VACATED AND THE CITY AGREED TO
AGREE TO GO AHEAD WITH
DEVELOPMENT IS THAT BY PLAN
THAT WITH THAT CAPTAIN THAT WAS
AGREED UPON IN 2020?
THAT WAS FIVE YEARS AGO.
SURE THIS PLAN IS NOW EXPIRED
AND THE DOCTOR WHO FILED SUIT
IS NO LONGER THERE AND PROBABLY
NOT EVEN IN BUSINESS ANYMORE
CORRECTLY.
THIS IS A DIFFERENT DEVELOPER.
I GUESS I'M SORT OF SURPRISED
THAT THIS PLAN HAS BROUGHT
FORWARD NOW I AM TO IT'S
CONVENIENT FOR MR. KAHAANI TO
BE GIVEN THE POWER TO MAKE IT
WITHOUT THE CONSENT DECREE
REQUIRED TO GIVE SOMETHING THAT
WOULD BE MORE AMENABLE TO WHAT
THE CITY WANTS.
IT'S NOT A TRANSPARENT PROCESS.
IT'S RATHER OPAQUE.
THE NEIGHBORS WERE NOT NOTIFIED
OF THIS.
CERTAINLY THE ONES THAT ARE
FAMILIAR WITH HISTORY WE HAD NO
KNOWLEDGE OF THIS WAS HAPPENING
UNTIL LATE LAST WEEK.
MY QUESTION IS GIVEN THAT A
DIFFERENT DEVELOPER AND YOU'RE
LOOKING AT A DIFFERENT PLAN,
WHY NOT SIMPLY MAKE IT A SIMPLY
DIFFERENT PLAN AND SIMPLY TO
PUT IT THROUGH THE NORMAL
PLANNING PROCESS IT SHOULD
RESTRICTING THE ENTIRE
REPUBLICAN USUAL HEARING FROM
MEETING ETC. AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT EVERYONE SHOULD
BE BROUGHT IN THE OPEN.
I THINK THERE'S NO NEED TO
PROCEED TO SOMETHING AS SIMPLE
LIKE THIS.
I THINK WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY
SHOULD BE A PUBLIC PROCESS AND
INVOLVING THE PUBLIC WHETHER
YOU TAKE THE CONFESSION WHICH I
DIDN'T SAY THAT I THINK YOU
NEED TO HAVE WITH RESPECT TO
THIS MATTER, I THINK IT'S NOT A
GOOD THING TO DO IN THE LONG
RUN.
30 SECONDS, MR. PUBLIC CONCERN
ABOUT COMETRUE AND GOOD LUCK
WITH ME TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
GRISWOLD'S
YES.
OR
WAIT
NO.
YES, I I I I SUSPECT
WHY
RANDY
,IF YOU ARE
YOUR IDEOLOGY
WORDLE
OK OVER TO GREECE.
>> YEAH YEAH THIS IS HERE IS
THIS NUMBER OF MY THE
INTERSECTION IS WILL OVER
IGNORE YOUR NUMBERS YOU HAVE
REPORTED HERE TO YOUR FRIEND
AGO WHO HAVE THE BEST
HOUSE.
OH YEAH IF DENHA
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
KAROLIINA FONSEKA
IT'S
UM UH UH
UH WHAT IF A?
OH,
AND IT'S HARD LISTENING TO
IT.
UH, FOREHEAD'S JUNKIES AND IT'S
ONE BUT UH I DON'T KNOW I WAS
GIVING UH IT THAT THIS WAS NOT
THE FIRST TIME THAT THIS UM
PAST WEEK WAS ON TRIAL AND UH I
MEAN, PROFESSOR, THE IN THAT
THEY WENT WITH US BASED AND I
WORRY THIS IS OR UH STATING BY
ONE BY ONE OUT OF MY OPERATION
IS WELL IT HASN'T BEEN ABLE TO
TAKE SINCE SEPTEMBER WHILE UH
BECAUSE UM YOU KNOW THAT SENT
BACK UM WANT TO SAY HOW PEOPLE
ESPECIALLY UH WHITE HAVE BEEN
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RICHARD
DORKUS.
I'M HERE AS REPRESENTING HERE
FOR THE CARDINAL KENSINGTON.
YEAH.
WE HAD UH ISSUES THAT YOU SEE
COMING THAT WE LIKE TO UH
INFORM YOU ABOUT ALL THE
PLANNING COMMISSIONS.
FIRST OF ALL, WE'RE GOING TO
RECOMMEND THAT YOU ELIMINATE UH
,THE HEARINGS OF THE FOUR FOR
THE SITE AND AS WELL AS THE
OFFICE RESTRUNG UH AND RISK
BECAUSE ESPECIALLY IN THIS DAY
WITH LIMITED UH, KNOWLEDGE
OF WHAT'S GOING ON ALL LONGER.
HAVE THE LOCAL NEWSPAPERS USED
TO HAVE THE UH OH IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT BECAUSE YOU DON'T
KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON.
THE OTHER ISSUE HAS TO DO WITH
THE ZONING THAT'S COME BEFORE
YOU.
THIS HAS TO DO WITH HALF AN
HOUR ONE AND THAT'S ALL HOUSES
ON BIG BLOCKS AND TARGETS FOR
SPECULATORS AND WE ARE STRONGLY
RECOMMENDING A LIMITATION ON
THE NUMBER OF BE ADDED TO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT MAYBE BECAUSE OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE INFRASTRUCTURE
IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS IS EIGHTY
FIVE YEARS OLD AND IT SIMPLY
WASN'T DESIGNED FOR THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE LIVING ON THE BLOCK.
BUT WE HAVE ISSUES WITH THE
WATER BUT GROUP ALSO WILL
GALOPIN OF HOUSING BY THE
PROPERTY AND THE REMOVAL
OF TREES.
WE ARE OF COURSE THE NEW TREES
AND AND KANGAROO WE WOULD ALLOW
OR ENCOURAGE BETTER WORK THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IN TERMS
OF SEWAGE FROM OTHER FOLKS DOWN
THERE CLEANING OUT FOR THE
HOUSES NOW EXIST BUT CHIEF
AMONG THEM IS THE ELECTRICITY.
YEAH, OUR AREAS OR THE OUTAGES
THAT OCCUR IN THE CITY AND ANY
OTHER AREA AND MUCH OF OUR
PROBLEMS THE SUBSTATION ON UH
NEEDING REPAIRS AND IT HAS BEEN
THE NO LONGER YOU HAVE GUYS OUT
A DOCTOR BUT YOU HAVE ELECTRIC
THAT'S A BE ISSUE.
SO BE PREPARED FOR A LOT
OF EXPENDITURE FOR FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THE OTHER ISSUE THAT WE HAVE IN
OUR HANDS OTHER PROBLEMS ON OUR
STREETS.
WE HAVE MAILBOXES.
>> THAT MEANS THAT ONE SIDE
OF THE STREET HAS VERY LIMITED
PARKING.
IT'S SPECIAL.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DENHA
RAMASWAMY TREVENA RAMASWAMY AND
I'M JUST SAYING BUT THANK
WRITERS KNOW
OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS PETER HOAK
.
>> COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THEIR
FAMILIES.
NICE TO HAVE YOU WITH YOU.
UH, UM I'M PETER HAVE I'M ON
THE TRANSPORTATION MISSION AND
I I AM JUST UM WE SAW THIS
MORNING WHAT UH AN EMERGENCY
RESPONSE LOOKS LIKE FOR UH
PUBLIC HEALTH.
WE HAD A WATER MAIN BREAK ON
PLYMOUTH AND SHUT THE ROAD DOWN
AND WE'RE FIXING AND WE ALERTED
EVERYBODY WHAT I WANT YOU GUYS
THAT UH OUR CONTRAST BETWEEN
ACTION, WHAT WE DID SO QUICKLY
AND WHAT WE HAD DONE IN THE
PAST SIX DAYS AND PEDESTRIAN
WAS KILLED FROM ONE BLOCK TO
THE WHERE IT'S CLOSED.
WE'VE DONE NOTHING I CAN SEE
I'VE BEEN DOWN ON THAT UM, I'M
GOING TO CONVINCE YOU THAT
THERE IS A PUBLIC HEALTH
EMERGENCY THERE AND THAT ROAD
IS SEVENTY THREE.
>> WHY IN THE TIME THAT IT
TAKES A PEDESTRIAN WALK SEVENTY
THREE TO ARE GOING AT THE POST
I'M TWENTY THREE AND GO OUT AND
THAT MEANS MARKETS START AT THE
DRIVEWAY OF BUSHES GREEN ROAD
DRIVE AT THE SPEED LIMIT WHY
NOT THE PLACE WHERE THE STREET
IS KILLED.
UM SO THAT MEANS THAT AS SHE
WAS STEPPING OFF THE SIDEWALK
WE TOOK HER ACROSS THE CAR THAT
HIT HER MAY HAVE BEEN WITHIN
SIGHT NO THERE'S NO WAY THAT
THE STREET IN THAT CONDITION
CAN MAKE AN INFORMED DECISION
ABOUT UH WHY ARE PEOPLE
CROSSING?
THERE ARE A LOT OF MANY THERE
ARE GOOD PLACES TO GO FROM WHEN
YOU GO TO WHY AREN'T THEY USING
THE CROSSWALK BECAUSE IT'S
ABOUT HUNDRED FEET IN THE WRONG
DIRECTION.
ONLY ONE IN SEVEN ONE DIRECTION
NOW YOU CAN RESPOND TO THIS
CRASH, THIS PUBLIC HEALTH
EMERGENCY SAFETY EMERGENCY THE
SAME WAY THAT YOU RESPONDED TO
THIS WATER MAIN BREAK.
YOU CAN USE WHITFELD OPTIONS
TO
SHUT DOWN ONE OF THE SIX LANES
ON THE TWENTY.
YOU COULD DO THAT RIGHT NOW.
YOU COULD START AT THIS WEEK.
YOU CAN USE IT TO NARROW ONE
OF THE LANES ON, UH, EASTBOUND
IT'S FIFTEEN FEET WIDE.
YOU COULD HAVE VERTICAL POSTS
IN THE UNUSED PORTION OF THE
CENTER LANE ALL OF THESE WILL
CALM TRAFFIC AND YOU NEED TO DO
SOMETHING.
DOING NOTHING IS NOT AN OPTION.
>> YOU NEED TO DO SOMETHING AND
WE'RE WAITING FOR YOU TO DO
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHAEL KIM
.
YOU NEVER CONDUCTED AN
EMERGENCY AS INDICATED BY STATE
CODE A JOURNALISM WASN'T WORTH
IT.
>> THE PRETTY SHE'S THE MISSING
OF ITS WEBSITE.
WHAT'S THE OF THE CALL NUMBERS
REQUEST LATER DEFERMENT OR
INDICATED THAT FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE ONLY ONE SIDE
INFORMATION THE OPPORTUNITY TO
INFLUENCE THE ESSENCE OF THE
MANDATE DECADES AGO THIS
FROM
INCONSISTENT APPLICATION OF THE
REASON THIS WAS THE OBVIOUS
ISSUE YOUR BUSINESS SEE THE
INDIVIDUAL WHO OVERSAW THE
INITIAL REVIEW TO OVERRULE THE
ORIGINAL WAS IF THIS WAS REAL
INVESTIGATE PRACTICE OR
ADMINISTRATION ELECTED LEADER
WROTE THAT THIS PROCESS IS BOTH
REGULAR AND FAIR AND NOT
DENIED.
THIS IS MR. INTEREST
OF TRANSPARENCY I DO ABOUT
INTENSELY FOCUSING ON THE
PROCESS AS THE REACH OF THESE
PROBLEMS IF ANYTHING LIKE THIS
AND THIS ISN'T STANDARD
BUSINESS REGULAR THIS IS AN
ISSUE FOR STANDARDS.
YOUR VIEWS ARE OF INTEREST TO
THE ETHICAL PEOPLE OF ANY STATE
OR IS THIS REALLY WHAT IS RIGHT
AND WHAT IS YOU THINK YOU'RE
ABOUT TO COME HERE IN PERSON?
YOU DON'T EXPECT IMPARTIALITY
OR OF COURSE MR.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALAN
HABOUR
.
I'M SURE YOU HAVE HEARD MORE.
YEAH, MY VOTE ON THE
CONSIDERATION OF THE FUTURE.
I
VOTE FOR NOVEMBER OF 96 IF
ACTION WAS CONTRARY CONTRARY TO
THE CITY CHARTER BOARD THREE
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
VOTE MAJORITY IS CONTRARY TO
YOUR OWN.
I DID TRY TO ALERT YOU THERE
WAS A PRIOR AGREEMENT ACTUALLY
AFTER THE IMPLEMENTATION THAT
WOULD BE AN ISSUE FOR PROBLEM
SOLVING.
YOU ARE AVOIDING AVOIDING THAT
.
I KNOW YOUR AGENDA.
I HAVE BEEN WAY DOWN THE LINE
NO NO
.
WELL CERTAINLY YOU SHOULDN'T BE
IN VIOLATION DUE PROCESS UNDER
PRESSURE.
I URGE YOU TO TAKE A STAND ON
DO THIS THE RIGHT WAY SOME
INTELLIGENT INNOVATION AND
ADDED TO THE LEGAL IDEA THAT IT
MIGHT PEOPLE HAVE ENOUGH TO
VOTE FOR BOTH IN THE LIBRARY
AND ON MY JOB.
I DON'T LIKE THE SURE THERE'S
NOT NOW I REALIZE THAT AS FAR
AS THE NEVER REALLY LOVED THE
BEAUTY OF THE IDEAL AND THE
POWER AND THE COMMON YOU SHINE
IT ON THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
THERE'S REALLY GREAT WORK DONE
BY CITIZENS
.
BE A GREAT CITY.
ARE THE PEOPLE ON THE RIGHT BUT
YOU WILL NOT FIND IT TO BE FOR
YOU ANYHOW BECAUSE THANK YOU
ARE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL
KATHWARI DENHA.
THANKS.
I JUST WANTED TO LET FOLKS KNOW
THOSE WHO CAN HEAR ME AT LEAST
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER GOT ZADRAN
AND I HAVE OUR UPCOMING AWARD
THREE LISTENING HOUR AT MALLETS
CREEK LIBRARY THIS SATURDAY AT
10 A.M. OUR NEW PUBLIC SERVICES
AREA ADMINISTRATOR JORDAN
ROBERTS WILL BE THERE AS OUR
SPECIAL GUEST COUNTS MEMBER
GLAZYEV AND I THANK YOU, MAYOR
.
I JUST WANT TO THANK EVERYONE
WHO IS ABLE TO ATTEND THE
BEYOND THE BRIDGE SOLUTION FOR
HOMELESSNESS, DOCUMENTARY
SCREENING AND CONVERSATION.
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
TAKEAWAY MESSAGE WAS THAT ALL
THESE SYSTEMS HAVE TO WORK
COLLABORATIVELY TOGETHER AND
I'M PROUD OF US AS A CITY FOR
SITTING IN A ROOM AND REALLY
TALKING ABOUT HOW WE'RE HERE.
WE'RE WILLING TO WORK TOGETHER
WITH OTHER SYSTEMS AND I'M
LOOKING FORWARD TO US
CONTINUING THOSE PARTNERSHIPS
AND I'M PROUD THAT SO MANY
PEOPLE ALMOST A THOUSAND PEOPLE
FROM OUR CITY WERE INTERESTED
IN THAT CONVERSATION.
>> THAT MEANS SOMETHING.
THANKS COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON,
PLEASE JOIN ME FOR A WORD
LISTENING SESSION THIS
SATURDAY, MARCH TWENTY SECOND
FROM THREE TO FOUR AT THE
LIBRARY'S TREVOR BRANCH IN THE
MULTIPURPOSE OF THE FIRST
PORTION OF THE SESSION WILL BE
CENTERED ON HOUSING BUT WE WILL
LEAVE TIME TO TAKE RESIDENT
QUESTIONS ON ANY ISSUE OF TO
SEE THAT COUNCILMAN COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS THE I WROTE THIS
TO SAY
FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL
WE HAVE BEFORE US
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT MOVE BY COUNCIL
MCCONNELL THANK MY COUNCIL
MARIAH DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL OVER A
DENHA REPORT PLEASE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA.
OH I'LL NOTE THAT YOUR AGENDA
IS IN THE HOUSE REVEAL AND
PERHAPS THE AGENDA ONLINE
REVEALS ONE HAS BEEN WITHDRAWN
BY STAFF.
IT IS NOT PART OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA FOR THE DISCUSSION ALL
IN FAVOR OF THE CONSENT THE
GENDER WITH THE EXCEPTION OF OF
COURSE THE SEE A OPPOSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF ONE TO 10 WITH
10 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO
SEVEN TWELVE SEET FOURTEEN
SIXTEEN S.A SEVENTEEN S.A
NINETEEN SEET 21 22 TEN
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO NEGOTIATE A
REVISED CONSENT JUDGMENT IN
SUPPORT OF DEVELOPMENT FOR TWO
EIGHT FIVE SEVEN PACARD ROAD
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA SABAI COUNTERMELODIES
DISCUSSION PLEASE HAVE TEN
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH PLEASE
THEY'RE NOT ON USE LARGE YES.
>> SO WHAT DO YOU COUNCILOR
REDISH SEVEN IN MAYOR OF THE
CITY AND BOOTH IS TELLING ME
THAT EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE NOT
BROADCASTING IF YOU TURN ON IT
MAY HELP WITH A LATER REPLAY
OF HE'S TRYING TO RECORD OK
GREAT THEN I'LL TURN IT ON AND
STILL STILL USE YOUR BIG FOUR
STILL TRY TO PROJECT SO
ANYWAY
IT'S A IT'S A PRIVATELY OWNED
PARCEL ON PACARD NEAR
COBBLESTONED FARM AND BUHR PARK
IT IS ZONED AH FOR E WITH
CONDITIONS WHICH IS A ZONING
CATEGORY THAT ALLOWS FOR SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES ATTACHED OR
DETACHED IN CLOSER PROXIMITY TO
EACH OTHER THAN WE SEE IN PARTS
OF THE CITY THAT REQUIRE LARGE
MINIMUM LOT SIZES AS MANY
OF YOU KNOW AND HAS BEEN
MENTIONED, THE SITE HAS ALSO
BEEN UNDER A CONSENT JUDGMENT
THAT THAT WAS REACHED BY THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT
IN 2020 THAT CONSENT A JUDGMENT
JUDGMENT PROVIDED FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF FIFTY ONE HOMES
MAXIMUM HOME SIZE OF TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET HALF WOULD
BE SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED AND
HALF SINGLE FAMILY ATTACHED
TOWNHOUSE TOWNHOUSE STYLE
HOMES.
>> IT ALSO PROVIDED PROTECTION
FOR THE PRESERVATION OF 62
WOODLAND TREES AND THIRTEEN
LANDMARKED TREES AND APPROVE
APPROVED A TREE MAINTENANCE AND
MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE
IMPLEMENTED FOR FIVE YEARS
AFTER COMPLETION
OF CONSTRUCTION THAT PLAN
CALLED OUT FOR PROTECTION TWO
LANDMARK TREES A LARGE BURR OAK
AND A SLIGHTLY SMALLER BUT
STILL PRETTY LARGE BURR OAK
THAT AND ONE OR BOTH OF THOSE
TREES MAY NOW BE NO LONGER
LIVING.
>> THE IMPORTANT THING TO KNOW
IS THAT MORE THAN FIVE YEARS
LATER THE PROPERTY IS STILL
UNDEVELOPED.
THE OWNER WISHES TO SELL IT
WHICH IS OF COURSE THEIR RIGHT
.
THIS CONSENT AGENDA ITEM ASKS
COUNCIL TO AUTHORIZE MR DE
HONY, OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO
SEEK AN ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSAL AND THAT ALTERNATIVE
WILL BE WOULD BE SOUGHT IN VIEW
OF A CONCEPT PLAN FROM A
DEVELOPER THAT IS ATTACHED TO
THE AGENDA THAT CONCEPT
PROPOSES TO DEVELOP THE SITE
WITH FEWER THAN FIFTY ONE HOMES
ALL SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED.
>> THIS IS AN INCREMENTAL
CHANGE TO THE AGREEMENT IMPOSED
BY THE CONSENT JUDGMENT AND IT
WORKS WITHIN THE CONSTRAINTS
OF THAT CONSENT JUDGMENT.
IT IS MINDFUL OF GREEN SPACE.
IT IS PROTECTIVE OF TREES AND
IT OFFERS IT WOULD OFFER A
HOUSING TYPOLOGY THAT THE CITY
DESIRES WHICH IS SINGLE FAMILY
ONE STORY HOME OR ONE FLOOR
HOMES NOW IN WORKING WITH THE
DEVELOPER ON THE NEW CONCEPT
PLAN COUNCIL ASKS MR HONY TO
PRIORITIZE THE FOLLOWING VALUES
ASSESSMENT AND PROTECTION
OF LANDMARK TREES AND WOODLANDS
ON THE SITE THAT'S VALUE ONE
SECOND ZERO OR REDUCED
CARBON EMISSIONS FROM THE
DEVELOPMENT WHEN COMPARED TO
TYPICAL CONSTRUCTION GALLERY.
YEP, FULLY ELECTRIC AND FOR
PROVISION OF DIVERSE HOUSING
FORMS.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO JUST SPEAK BRIEFLY ON
THIS BECAUSE THIS IS A PROPERTY
THAT HAS BEEN OF DISCUSSION IN
THE COMMUNITY SINCE BEFORE I
WAS ON COUNCIL.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I WORKED
EARLY IN MY FIRST TERM WHEN
AFTER AFTER WE HAD ENTERED INTO
IT WE WERE ENTERED INTO THIS
CONSENT JUDGMENT.
THERE WAS ACTUALLY INTEREST
FROM ANOTHER DEVELOPER IN THIS
SITE OR IN THIS PROPERTY AND AT
THE TIME WAS PROPOSING KIND
OF A MULTI STOREY SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT AT THE SITE.
UNFORTUNATELY THAT PROPOSAL DID
NOT COME TOGETHER.
WE WERE THE CITY WAS QUITE
INTERESTED IN MOVING FORWARD.
I KNOW THAT THERE WAS
CONSIDERABLE CONVERSATION WITH
WITH NEARBY NEIGHBORS WHO HAD
PARTICIPATED IN PUBLIC MEETINGS
WITH THE POTENTIAL DEVELOPER
AND TO THE EXTENT THAT EVEN
BECAUSE IT WAS A FULLY
SUSTAINABLE LOW CARBON NEUTRAL
DESIGN, IT WAS REALLY
THOUGHTFUL OF KIND OF THE THE
WOODED SPACE THAT WAS AROUND IT
THAT THE CITY WAS ACTUALLY
INTERESTED IN POTENTIALLY
PARTNERING AND HELPING TO FUND
A PORTION OF ACQUIRING THAT
PROPERTY IN ORDER FOR IT TO
MOVE FORWARD.
UNFORTUNATELY THE REALITY WAS
THAT THAT THAT PROPOSAL NEVER
WAS ABLE TO MOVE FORWARD.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
DEVELOPER AT THE TIME WAS NOT
ABLE TO SECURE FUNDING FOR THE
PROPOSAL AND AS A RESULT WE
WEREN'T ABLE TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH IT.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, THERE HAVE
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER
OF THINGS PROPOSED AT THIS SITE
OVER THE YEARS AND CURRENTLY
ANY MR WEBBER COULD GO IN ERM
MR WEBER, THE CURRENT OWNER
COULD SELL THIS PROPERTY AND
AND THE CURRENT CONSENT
JUDGMENT COULD BE BUILT THERE
BY RIGHT AND SO AND SO WHAT
THIS DOES WOULD EMPOWER OUR OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR, OUR STAFF
BY EXTENSION TO GO IN AND TO
NEGOTIATE AN OUTCOME THAT
PRIORITIZES SOME OF OUR CITY'S
GOALS IN OUR CITIES DESIRES AT
THE SITE I KNOW THROUGH MY
CONVERSATIONS WITH STAFF ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE GOING
TO DO IS MAKE SURE THAT AS
WE'RE LOOKING AT THESE LANDMARK
TREES THAT WERE DESIRED FOR US
TO PRESERVE THAT WE'RE NOT JUST
GOING TO TAKE THE DEVELOPER'S
WORD FOR IT THAT THEY ARE IN
FACT DEAD .
WE WE WOULD GO IN AND DO THAT
OURSELVES BEFORE YOU KNOW THOSE
TYPES OF THINGS AS WE'RE
NEGOTIATING THIS.
BUT THE REALITY IS I THINK YOU
KNOW FROM WHAT I KNOW FROM
CONVERSATIONS WITH MY
CONSTITUENTS, FROM WHAT I KNOW
OF CONVERSATIONS WITH STAFF AND
AND THOSE IN THE COMMUNITY WHO
HAVE HAD AN INTEREST IN THIS
SITE, THE REALITY IS THAT THE
CURRENT CONSENTED CONCURRENT
CONSENT JUDGMENT IS NOT THE THE
THE FAVORITE OUTCOME OF ANYONE
.
AND SO ULTIMATELY I SEE THIS AS
A STEP FORWARD THAT POTENTIALLY
AT LEAST ALLOWS SOMETHING TO
HAPPEN HERE WITH US WITH US
PRIORITIZING SOME OF OUR CITY
PRIORITIES.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I AM
COMFORTABLE MOVING FORWARD.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT A
FINAL A FINAL PLAN WOULD
ULTIMATELY HAVE TO COME BACK
AND BE APPROVED BY THIS BODY
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL.
>> I HAVE A QUESTION I THINK
FOR STAFF AND SORRY I'M NOT
VERY PROJECTING MY VOICE BUT
I'LL TRY.
COULD STAFF SPEAK TO HOW THE
CONSENT JUDGMENT IMPACTS THE
PROCESS THAT WE FOLLOW FOR THE
SO I UNDERSTAND WHAT WE'RE
APPROVING TONIGHT BUT WOULD IT
STILL BE SUBJECT TO PLANNING
COMMISSION REVIEW MEETINGS SUCH
AND IF NOT, WHY NOT?
COULD SOMEONE HELP ME
UNDERSTAND?
>> THANK YOU
.
THE EARLIEST
THE PROCESS IS
SOMETHING REGARDLESS OF WHAT IT
IS THIS IS THE PURVIEW
OVERSIGHT BOARD FOR IT'S GOT TO
BE TOTAL AND WHETHER IT'S A
JUDGMENT, ALL THAT JUDGMENT OR
DO ANYTHING OTHERWISE IT IS A
YOU CAN DICTATE THAT THERE BE
ADDITIONAL REVIEW IN THAT
PROCESS PRIOR TO THE CONSENT
BUT IT IS NOT REQUIRED AS IF
THE STANDARD DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS SO YOU GUYS CAN DICTATE
THE PROCESS TO THE EXTENT YOU
CAN REVIEW AND APPROVE A
REVISED IF YOU FEEL LIKE IT IS
INCREDIBLY CLOSE AND CONSISTENT
,THERE ARE THINGS YOU WANT.
WE'RE CERTAINLY ABLE TO DO THAT
BY REFERRING TO REFERRING IT TO
THE BOARD OR LETTING US KNOW
THROUGH MR HOLLANDE THAT HE
WOULD LIKE THOSE PRIOR TO DO.
I THINK THE PROCESS AS DEFINED
IS THAT THE CONSENT IS AMENDED
OR CHANGED BY THE THAT IS ONLY
REQUIRED HOWEVER IS A
COMPLETELY DISCRETIONARY
PROCESS.
THEREFORE I THINK I'VE GOT
HOPEFULLY I THE ULTIMATE
APPROVAL.
YEAH BUT THE COUNCIL SAYS WE
WANT TO GO TO COURT HOW THE
COUNCIL GETS THERE YOU CAN A
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED.
>> WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SEEK
TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING.
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST
RELATE TO THE SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE
AGENDA TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
>> SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY
YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF ONE
POINT ONE FIVE ACRES FROM TWP
TOWNSHIP TO PUDI PLANNED
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT HICKORY
WEIGH THREE PUDI ZONING AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS ONE
ONE FOUR SIX SOUTH MAPLE ROAD.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> CAN'T HURT THE DIRECTOR
OF REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AND
I JUST REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
UM IT WAS MENTIONED THAT YOU
HAVE
TO RUN TO ACTUALLY GET
HERE IN PLACE SO THAT I WOULD
NOT GET I SO BUSY WAS THE
CHANGE FOR YOU IS THIS IS I
JUST REALLY APPRECIATE THE IN
GENERAL JUST REALLY APPRECIATE
BEING IN UM WE'RE EXCITED ABOUT
OUR NEW UNITS.
UM FOURTH THE HOUSE OF YEAH
YEAH
.
UM YEAH THIS YEAR.
YEAH
IT'S
THANK
IS ANYONE ELSE
IN HOUSE I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS ANYONE
ONLINE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
MARY DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS
ONLINE WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
SO SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO TWO RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE ONE ONE FOUR SIX S
MAPLE ROAD HICKORY WEIGH THREE
D SITE PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
MAYOR, I DON'T HAVE ANYONE
ONLINE FOR THIS HEARING.
>> IT'S SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OF MARCH THREE.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEMBER
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES BY COUNCILOR WATSON
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
OF FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE MINUTES
ARE APPROVED B1 NORDEN'S TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF ONE POINT ONE FIVE
ACRES FROM GWP TOWNSHIP TO PUDI
PLANGENT A DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
HICKORY WEIGH THREE PUDI ZONING
AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
ONE ONE FOUR SIX S MAPLE ROAD
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B
ONE COUNCILOR BRITISH THIS
PROPOSAL IS ACCOMPANIED BY A
SITE PLAN WHICH WE WILL DISCUSS
NEXT AND ABOUT WHICH I WILL
HAVE MORE TO SAY.
>> BUT ALL THERE IS TO SAY HERE
IS THAT THIS THIS PARCEL IS
CURRENTLY ZONED TOWNSHIP AND WE
ARE ASKED TO REZONE IT AS PUDI
AND WE SHOULD DO THAT
CONCLUSORY BUT THANK FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSE
ITS APPROVED
DC ONE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE ONE ONE FOUR SIX
S MAPLE ROAD HICKORY WEIGH
THREE PUDI SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT MOVE BY
COUNCILOR DISH SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE.
>> YES ONE COUNCIL POSITION AS
WE JUST HEARD THIS PROJECT WILL
ADD TO THE EXISTING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING COMPLEXES HICKORY ONE
IN TO A FOUR STORY BUILDING
PROVIDING THIRTY NINE
ADDITIONAL FOUR AFFORDABLE ONE
BEDROOM RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
WE SEE A PROJECT LIKE THIS AND
WE ARE GRATEFUL HOMELESSNESS
HAS INCREASED TWENTY PERCENT
OVERALL IN WASHTENAW COUNTY
SINCE TWENTY TWENTY THERE IS A
FIFTEEN FIFTY PERCENT INCREASE
FOR THOSE WHO EXPERIENCE
CHRONIC HOMELESSNESS TO APPROVE
THIS PUDI WE NEED TO HAVE MEET
EIGHT CRITERIA WHICH I WILL
BRIEFLY REVIEW BECAUSE WE
SHOULD ALWAYS SPEAK TO THE
CRITERIA FOR THE PUDI THIS
PROJECT MORE THAN MEETS THE
FIRST CRITERIA FOR A PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT WHICH IS THAT
IT MUST HAVE A BENEFICIAL
EFFECT FOR THE CITY ON PRESENT
AND POTENTIAL SURROUNDING LAND
USES NOT ONLY IS THIS A ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROJECT BUT AT LEAST 35
PERCENT OF THE UNITS WILL BE
ACCOMPANIED BY SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES.
IN ADDITION, IT WILL MEET
NATIONAL GREEN BUILDINGS,
SILVER STANDARD WHICH IS GREEN
PLUS NET ZERO OR EQUIVALENT.
IT WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC AND
ENERGY EFFICIENT BUILDING
ENVELOPE WITH HIGH PERFORMANCE
WINDOWS AND ENERGY EFFICIENT
FIXTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
>> THIS SECOND THIS BENEFICIAL
EFFECT COULD NOT BE ACHIEVED
UNDER ANY OTHER ZONING
CLASSIFICATION.
WE ARE GETTING MORE OPEN SPACE
WITH THE PUDI THAN REQUIRE TO
BUY R FOR E AND THE PD ALLOWS
US TO MODIFY A SETBACK
REQUIREMENT SO WE CAN MEET THE
MR PARKING REQUIREMENTS WITHOUT
LOSING HOUSING UNITS.
THIRD, THE USERS USES DO NOT
NEGATIVELY AFFECT PUBLIC
UTILITIES OR SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES WHICH IT DOES NOT
BECAUSE IT'S CONSISTENT WITH
MULTIFAMILY FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
WHICH IS ADJACENT THE FOURTH
THE THE USES ARE CONSISTENT
WITH THE 2009 COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNED LAND USE ELEMENT WHICH
RECOMMENDS MULTIFAMILY
DEVELOPMENT FOR THIS AREA.
THE FIFTH CRITERIA IS MOOT
BECAUSE THIS IS A ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT AFFORDABLE PROJECT.
THE SUPPLEMENTAL SIXTH
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
PROVIDE SUFFICIENT
JUSTIFICATION AND PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS TO MONITOR THESE
BENEFITS.
AS I MENTIONED, WE MEET
CRITERIA SEVEN BECAUSE THERE
ARE TWENTY PARKING SPACES WHICH
IS A REDUCTION OF SPACES TO AN
AMOUNT AT OR NEAR THE MINIMUM
THAT ENSURES ELIGIBILITY FOR
MR. FUNDS.
AND FINALLY THERE IS NO NO
DISTURBANCE TO NATURAL FEATURES
AND OR HISTORICALLY SIGNIFICANT
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES THAT WE
NEED TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT FOR
THIS.
SO I'D LIKE IT IF WE WOULD
APPROVE IT FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS, JUST VERY
BRIEFLY, THANK YOU FOR THAT
THAT OVERVIEW AND EXCITED TO BE
SEEN MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
COMING INTO THE FIFTH WARD AND
PHASE THREE OF THIS PROJECT.
>> IT'S A IT'S A WELCOME
ADDITION FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, JUST A
NOTE ON THE FUNDING FOR THIS
PROJECT.
>> IT WAS LAST WEEK THE URBAN
COUNTY RECOMMENDED THAT THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS APPROVE
THREE POINT FOUR MILLION
DOLLARS IN THE HOME AND HOME
OUR HUD FUNDS AND IF YOU RECALL
WHEN THE COUNTY WAS DEBATING
WHETHER TO USE HOME OUR FUNDS,
MANY COMMUNITY MEMBERS
INCLUDING MEMBERS OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL ADVOCATED
THAT A GREATER PERCENTAGE
OF THAT MONEY SHOULD BE USED
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE THERE ARE
SO FEW FUNDING SOURCES FOR
DEVELOPMENT.
THE OUTCOME OF THAT WAS THAT
SIXTY PERCENT OF THE FUNDS
OF OF HOME ARP WERE MOVED
TOWARD DEVELOPMENT AND THAT AND
THIS PROJECT WAS BASICALLY THE
SOLE BENEFICIARY OF THOSE
FUNDS.
SO IT SHOWS THAT YOU KNOW OUR
CHOICES WHEN WE ARE ALLOCATING
FUNDING DO BEAR FRUIT AND DO
RESULT IN DEVELOPMENT.
THE DISCUSSION.
I JUST LIKE TO ECHO MY
COLLEAGUE'S GRATITUDE FOR
REVLON AND YOUR TEAM MEMBERS
FOR MOVING FORWARD WITH HICKORY
ONE AND TWO AND NOW
OF MACQUARIE WAY THREE.
OBVIOUSLY WE ARE IN GREAT NEED
AS A COMMUNITY OF MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND IT IS
OUTSTANDING THAT WE HAVE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO ADD 39 NEW UNITS
AND TO HELP SUPPORT THOSE WHO
WHO ARE IMPORTANT MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY AND WE ARE
COMMITTED TO DOING IT WHERE WE
CAN AS WE CAN.
>> SO THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR OPPOSED ITS APPROVED
EU RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
ISSUANCE OF TWO TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS
FOR THE FIRE STATION NUMBER FOR
REPLACEMENT PROJECT NOT TO
EXCEED TWELVE MILLION DOLLARS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER KERNELL
SECOND BY COUNCILOR PRIOR
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DSU
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I JUST WANT TO SAY I'M REALLY
EXCITED TO APPROVE THIS ITEM
BECAUSE THIS IS GOING TO BE A
PHENOMENAL PROJECT AND MAKE US
A LEADER IN SUSTAINABILITY AND
GIVE US MAYBE THE FIRST IN
MICHIGAN SUSTAINABLE NET ZERO
FIRE STATION YAY FOR THE
DISCUSSION FOR MY I'D LIKE TO
YOU KNOW I DO A LOT OF THAT
GOING AROUND HERE BUT I ALSO
LIKE TO ECHO COUNCIL DISHES
COMMENTS AND ALSO STATE THAT IN
ADDITION TO ITS
SUSTAINABILITY
BENEFITS, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
NOTE THAT THIS IS THIS IS A
WORKPLACE AND YOU KNOW, WE WE
SO VALUE THE WORK THAT OUR
FIRST RESPONDERS DO GENERALLY
AND OUR FIREFIGHTERS WITH
SPECIFICITY AND THE FIRE
STATIONS ARE WHERE THEY SPEND A
GOOD DEAL OF THEIR TIME.
>> THEY HAVE 24 HOUR SHIFTS.
THEY ARE HOMES AWAY FROM HOMES
AND THIS HOME IS NOT ADEQUATE
FOR THE PURPOSE IT IS HAS
ELECTRIC PROBLEMS.
IT IS WAS NOT DESIGNED FOR A
MIXED GENDER WORKFORCE, ONE
THAT WE VALUE.
AND SO IT'S IT'S EXCITING IN
ADDITION TO THE SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS OF THE WORK THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO WITH
THIS FIRE STATION TO SUPPORT
THOSE WHO SUPPORT US FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR?
>> NO, I GOT A ROLL CALL LIST A
ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE.
>> STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA YES.
PENNSBURG 01 YES.
RETAILOR YES.
THAT'S WHERE ACKMANN YES
COUNCIL OUR BRIGS YES.
>> COUNCILOR CORNELL CUSTOMER
DISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON ABSENT
COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR MALIK YES.
>> MOTION CARRIES C ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTIONS
NINE ONE ZERO ONE NINE ONE ZERO
THREE NINE ONE ZERO FIVE AND
NINE ONE ZERO NINE OF CHAPTER
ONE ONE ONE FIRE PREVENTION
OF TITER NINE OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY BAN ARBER MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C1 ON
FAVOR OPPOSED IT'S APPROVED C
TO AN ORDINANCE TO ADD CHAPTER
THIRTY FIVE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY TO TITLE TWO UTILITIES
AND SERVICES THE CODE OF THE
STEPHEN ARBER MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACTION TAKEN A COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S DISCUSSION OF C
TWO
COUNCIL MEMBER BREAKS.
I DON'T HAVE MUCH TO SAY EXCEPT
FOR IT'S EXCITING TO GET TO
THIS POINT RIGHT.
A LOT OF HARD WORK TACT AND
GRATITUDE TO VOTERS FOR PROVING
THAT SEE YOU IN NOVEMBER AND
IT'S EXCITING TO ACTUALLY
CREATE THE STRUCTURE FOR THIS
AND THE THE FRAMEWORK FOR
MOVING IN.
>> SEE YOU FORWARD IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> WELL, I MEMBERS OF THE
MEMBERS OF THE NRA COMMUNITY
DESERVE TO HAVE A 100 PERCENT
RENEWABLE, RELIABLE, LOW COST
ENERGY AND WE ARE AND I AM
INCREDIBLY EXCITED THAT THE
COMMUNITY HAS GOTTEN BEHIND THE
SEIYU SEVENTY-NINE TWENTY ONE
AND THAT WE AND WHEN I SAY WE
OF COURSE I MEAN STAFF HAS DONE
THE GREAT AND GOOD WORK TO GET
US TO THIS PLACE.
>> WE ARE SETTING UP THE
STRUCTURE FOR THE SIU.
WE WILL FILL THE STRUCTURE WITH
PEOPLE WHO ARE COMMITTED AND
EXCITED TO PROVIDE HIGH QUALITY
100 PERCENT RENEWABLE RELIABLE
ENERGY SERVICE TO TO CUSTOMERS
IN ANN ARBOR, FOLKS WHO CHOOSE
TO JOIN AND I THINK THAT THE
SEIU, THE U.S. USE A THING THAT
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WILL OVER
THE COURSE OF TIME BE
INCREDIBLY EXCITED AND PROUD
ABOUT IT A GREAT AND GOOD THING
AND I'M SO GLAD THAT WE'RE
MOVING FORWARD TO A SECOND
READING COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
ALL RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I'LL CHIME IN.
I WANTED TO POINT TO THE FACT
THAT THIS IS GETTING NATIONAL
ATTENTION AT THIS POINT.
I BELIEVE THIS WILL BE THE
FIRST OF ITS KIND IN THE
COUNTRY AND I THINK THAT'S
SOMETHING FOR US TO BE PROUD
ABOUT THE VOTERS APPROVING AND
YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT'S WHY
YOU'RE SEEING SO MUCH
EXCITEMENT EXPRESSED AT THIS
TABLE.
THERE WAS AN ARTICLE PUBLISHED
WITHIN THE LAST WEEK IN THE
CONVERSATION I'D ENCOURAGE
PEOPLE TO GO TO THAT.
IT TALKS ABOUT IT'S WRITTEN BY
AN ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ANALYST
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
WHO WORKS IN THE ENERGY SPACE
AND TALKS ABOUT THIS KIND
OF EXPLOSION AND INTEREST IN
LOCAL POWER, HOW PEOPLE ARE
FRUSTRATED WITH THEIR INVESTOR
OWNED UTILITIES AND THE HURDLE
TO GETTING PAST THAT IS REALLY
HIGH WHICH WE'VE ALSO TALKED
ABOUT IN THE RECENT PAST.
YOU KNOW, AND SO THIS OFFERS US
I THINK A BRIDGE A WAY THAT WE
CAN OPERATE SOMETHING THAT
WOULD BE SUSTAINABLE AND
RELIABLE ALONGSIDE OUR CURRENT
UTILITY.
AND I'M JUST SO EXCITED THAT
THIS IS GETTING THE ATTENTION
THAT DESERVES AND I HOPE THAT
NOT ONLY DOES IT SERVE OUR
COMMUNITY WELL BUT SERVES AS A
MODEL TO OTHER COMMUNITIES FOR
OUR DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED C3 AND AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION FIVE THAT ONE
FIVE FIVE THAT ONE SIX CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVI COUNCIL MEMBER SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IA DISCUSSION
OF C THREE COUNCIL MODISH JUST
BECAUSE IT'S KIND OF FUNNY WHEN
WE GET TO REMOVE USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS THAT COME TO US FROM
A DIFFERENT ERA SO THESE WHAT
WE WILL BE THESE AMENDMENTS
REMOVE USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS
RELATED TO GENERAL
ENTERTAINMENT USES THAT LIMIT
THE SEATING CAPACITY
OF ENCLOSED THEATERS IN THE C
ONE B DISTRICT AND IF THAT
SOUNDS WEIRDLY SPECIFIC IT IS
AND THAT'S WHAT'S WRONG WITH IT
AND THEN THERE'S ANOTHER ONE
THAT RESTRICTS THE LOCATIONS
OF ALL THINGS PINBALL PART
PARLORS SO THESE LIMITATIONS
AND RESTRICTIONS DATE BACK TO
AN EARLIER TIME WITH DIFFERENT
STANDARDS OF PROPRIETY THAN WE
HAVE TODAY.
THEY ARE NO LONGER RELEVANT OR
DESIRED.
SO REMOVING THESE RESTRICTIONS
WILL REMOVE A BARRIER FOR SUCH
IS TO CONTINUE OPERATE IN OR BE
NEWLY ESTABLISHED IN MIXED USE
DISTRICTS AND THAT'S PROBABLY
OK.
>> SO I HOPE YOU WILL JOIN ME
NO SHOULD IN SUPPORTING THIS
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
RACKMAN I SUPPORT BEANBALL.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHY WE
LEGISLATED THIS OUT OF PLACES
SO BRING ON FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR OR OPPOSE IT IS
APPROVED CIFOR ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE THAT ONE
SEVEN FIVE NOT TO SEVEN AND
FIVE TO DATE OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE BUILDINGS
DESIGNED REQUIREMENTS ON
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY STREETS
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD AND DESIGN
REVIEW TO REPEAL SECTION ONE
TWO THREE NINE OF CHAPTER EIGHT
OF TITLE ONE THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SAYING
MY COUNCILOR IA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C FOUR THOUSAND
BRITISH I'M SORRY.
SO THIS ITEM OFFERS US AN
OPPORTUNITY TO STREAMLINE THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS SO THAT WE
CAN FOCUS ON AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY THAT WE ASKED
STAFF TO PROVIDE IN IT COMES
BEFORE US AS A FOLLOW UP TO THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
THAT FORMER DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR JOHN FOURNIER
PRESENTED TO US IN DECEMBER
2003 AFTER HAVING SPENT MORE
THAN A YEAR RESEARCHING IT THAT
WAS DIRECTED BY THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND
VERY MUCH SPEARHEADED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IA ON APRIL 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR COUNCIL
ADOPTED A RESOLUTION CONTAINING
THIRTEEN MEASURES THAT WERE
SUPPOSED TO STREAMLINE THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND
ALLEVIATE UNDUE BURDENS THAT
SLOW IT DOWN AND THAT
RESOLUTION SPECIFICALLY
IDENTIFIED THE DESIGN REVIEW.
>> ONE OF THOSE RESOLUTIONS
SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIED THE
DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS AS ONE
SUCH BURDEN.
SO WHAT ARE THE BURDENS
ASSOCIATED WITH DESIGN REVIEW
AND ARE THEY WORTH THE COST?
>> THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD ADDS
A MONTH OR MORE TO THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND THE
REASON IS THAT IT HAS TO COMPLY
WITH THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT
WHICH HAS POSTING REQUIREMENTS
AN ADDITIONAL REASON AS IS THAT
THE CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
MEETING HAS TO HAPPEN AFTER THE
DRP MEETING.
THAT MEETING ALSO HAS TO BE
NOTICED TEN DAYS PRIOR TO
SUBMIT A LIVE SITE PLAN
CURRENTLY.
SO THIS IS A DELAY IN SITE PLAN
SUBMITTAL WHICH IS REALLY A
DELAY IN THE KICKOFF OF THE
ENTIRE REVIEW PROCESS.
MOREOVER AND I HAVE TO
UNDERSCORE THIS EACH PROJECT
INVOLVES A LOT OF STAFF TIME
STAFF HAS TO TAKE PICTURES
OF THE PROJECT AND KNOW TO AND
THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
NOTICING THE NEARBY RESIDENTS
AND TIME THAT WE ASK STAFF TO
SUPPORT THE DERBY IS TIME THAT
THEY CANNOT SPEND WRITING
ORDINANCES THAT WE WANT TO
IMPLEMENT THE NEW COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN.
>> FINALLY I WOULD JUST ADD
THAT IN PLANNING COMMISSIONS
DEBATE OVER THIS RESOLUTION IT
CAME UP THAT THESE DESIGN
REVIEW GUIDELINES THAT ARE
FOLLOWED BY THE DRP ARE NOT
MANDATORY AND THEY REALLY CAN'T
BE BECAUSE GOOD DESIGN IS NOT
SOMETHING YOU CAN MEASURE AND
IT IS HARD TO MANDATE SOMETHING
THAT YOU CANNOT MEASURE.
>> SO WE ARE HAVING A DELAY FOR
A PROCESS THAT IS NOT MANDATORY
AND OFTEN ENDS UP WITH SORT
OF COMPETING ADVICE AND AN
OUTCOME THAT IS IN THE TASTE
OF SOME BUT NOT OTHERS.
SO THIS FEELS LIKE AN OK THING
TO REMOVE FROM OUR PROCESS
.
>> THANK YOU.
AS COUNCIL MEMBER JOSH NOTED A
YEAR AGO, CITY COUNCIL AS PART
OF OUR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PACKAGE OF RESOLUTIONS
SPECIFICALLY VOTED UNANIMOUSLY
TO DIRECT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO BRING FORWARD
CHANGES TO OUR DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS THAT WOULD REMOVE
MANDATORY DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
MEETINGS, REVIEW BOARD HEARINGS
AND INSTEAD MAKE DESIGN REVIEW
A STAFF FUNCTION
.
THIS WAS A CLEAR AND DELIBERATE
DECISION AIMED AT MAKING IT
FASTER, EASIER AND LESS COSTLY
TO BUILD NEW HOUSING SOMETHING
WE ALL AGREED WAS URGENTLY
NEEDED.
>> STAFF IN THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAVE DONE EXACTLY
WHAT WE ASKED OF THEM.
WE'VE ACKNOWLEDGED REPEATEDLY
THAT ANN ARBOR IS IN A HOUSING
CRISIS AND THAT REMOVING
UNNECESSARY BARRIERS BARRIERS
TO HOUSING CONSTRUCTION IS
ESSENTIAL.
WE HAVE A CHANCE TO FOLLOW
THROUGH ON A PROCESS THAT WE
OURSELVES INITIATED FROM THIS
TABLE TO SUPPORT EFFICIENT,
THOUGHTFUL DEVELOPMENT AND MAKE
REAL PROGRESS ON HOUSING AND I
BELIEVE WE SHOULD TAKE IT.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO ASK YOUR
STAFF A CLARIFYING QUESTION
BECAUSE I THINK THAT I MIGHT
HAVE GOTTEN A LITTLE BIT LOST
IN THE STAFF DESCRIPTION THAT
ACCOMPANIED THIS AND HOPEFULLY
IT WILL BE FAST TO CLEAR UP.
I SEE THE ATTACHED ORDINANCE
AND IT DOESN'T INCLUDE THIS.
HOWEVER IN THE BODY OF THE
ACCOMPANYING TEXT TO THE ITEM
AND LEGISLATOR IT HAS A SECOND
BULLET POINT TALKING ABOUT AT A
WORKING SESSION A PLANNING
COMMISSION THEY EXPRESSED
INTEREST IN AS THREE DIFFERENT
BULLET POINTS AND ONE OF THE
ONES THAT IT TALKS ABOUT IS THE
EXTERIOR INSULATION FINISHING
SYSTEM.
>> IS THAT PART OF THIS OR NOT?
THE
HAVE A VERY SHORT MODIFIED
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS OVER RECENT
YEARS EXTERIOR INSULATED
INITIALING SYSTEMS HAVE BEEN
COMMITTED.
THEY GENERALLY HAVE A POOR
REPUTATION FOR DESIGN GENETICS.
HOWEVER, WE HAVE HAD SEVERAL
DESIGNERS REFERENCE THAT THEY
DO AN INSULATING VALUE OR HAVE
THE POTENTIAL TO HELP WITH AN
IMPROVED BUILDING EFFICIENCY
AND SO STAFF PROPOSED CHANGE AS
A WAY TO POTENTIALLY PROVIDE
ANOTHER TOOL TO INCREASE THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF OUR
BUILDINGS POTENTIALLY THE COST
OF DESIGN.
>> BUT IS THAT PART OF WHAT
WE'RE CONSIDERING IN THIS
CHANGE TONIGHT
THAT WOULD BE
THAT IS INCLUDED IN THIS OK, SO
I GUESS I HAVE A FOLLOW UP
QUESTION WHICH IS THAT I'VE
UNDERSTAND THAT IT ADDS A LEVEL
OF EFFICIENCY.
HOWEVER, I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT
THIS MATERIAL HAS CONCERNS AND
HUMAN ENVIRONMENT'S CONCERNS
WITH LONGEVITY ARE ARE WE ASKED
TO BALANCE THOSE?
HAS IT CHANGED WITH TECHNOLOGY
AND INSTALLATION LIKE HOW DO WE
YEAH.
SO I THINK THOSE TRADEOFFS
STILL EXIST.
I AM NOT MATERIALS EXPERT AT
OFFER IT AS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION YOU HAD WITH
ARCHITECTS LIKE I SAID RECENT
YEARS AT SPORTS.
SO I BELIEVE THOSE TRADEOFFS
STILL EXIST.
I THINK IT IS JUST THAT IT'S
MATERIAL THAT POTENTIALLY
COMPROMISES SOME OF THOSE
ASPECTS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY.
BUT JUST FOR A WAY FOR EXAMPLE,
IF PEOPLE ARE FAMILIAR WITH IT
OFTENTIMES IN COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS YOU SEE THOSE KIND
OF FINISHED IT IS VERY COMMON
ACROSS OF THAT IS BUT FOR THIS
TO BE CLEAR SIMPLY THAT I
DIDN'T DO ANYTHING MATERIAL
ANALYSIS OR LONG TERM MATERIAL
ANALYSIS, LIGHT ANALYSIS ON A
STRICTLY OPPORTUNITY IF WE
WANTED TO ADD ANOTHER TWO OR
EXTERIOR OR STATION.
OK, THANKS.
I GUESS I'M SOMEWHAT CONCERNED
BECAUSE I DON'T FEEL LIKE I
HAVE THE TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE TO
EVALUATE THE SINCE IT SEEMS
LIKE IT'S POTENTIALLY A
CONCERNING CHANGE.
>> SO I'M NOT QUITE SURE WHAT
TO MAKE OF IT
.
OK WE WE WAIVED THE THE EFFORTS
AGAINST PROHIBITION FOR THE I
BELIEVE IT WAS FOR ONE OF THE
DEVELOPMENTS EITHER 721 SOUTH
FOREST OR 611 CHURCH.
>> WELL
OH NO I DON'T THINK
IT'S USED DOWNTOWN OK.
YEAH I THINK I REMEMBER ONE
OF THE DEVELOPMENTS WE HAVE
REMOVED IT SPECIFICALLY TO
IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY OF ONE
OF THE BUILDINGS.
OK, BUT
SO I GUESS THIS IS A
COUPLE OF PIECES.
ONE THAT THAT PART MAKES THIS
MORE COMPLICATED WITH REGARDS
TO THERE'S SORT OF A NEW
ELEMENT IN HERE WHICH AS I
MENTIONED, WE DON'T HAVE THE
TECHNICAL EXPERTIZE.
OBVIOUSLY IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE
WE ACTUALLY HAVE THE TECHNICAL
EXPERTIZE.
DO WE HAVE THE TECHNICAL
EXPERTIZE ON STAFF AROUND THIS
TO UNDERSTAND THE FULL THE PROS
AND CONS OF THIS?
I DON'T KNOW ANY QUESTION SO I
JUST WANT TO MAKE RIGHT
OK, I'D
LIKE TO PROPOSE THAT WE STRIKE
THIS ELEMENT OF THE CHANGES
RIGHT NOW TO SEPARATE IT SO WE
CAN HAVE THAT AS A SEPARATE
CONVERSATION AND ON ITS OWN
MERITS
.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT SECTION
ASSESS THE YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> I COULDN'T FIND IT WITHIN
THE ORDINANCE ITSELF SO I
WASN'T SURE WHAT MY SOME KIND
OF DENHA WHY WOULD YOU PLEASE
UH WELL THIS IS SORT OF THE
SECOND MEETING THAT YOU WISH
FOR.
>> CAN I ONCE WE WERE
I WOULD
PREFER TO JUST REMOVE IT AND
HAVE A CONVERSATION THAT'S FINE
.
I MEAN THAT WE CAN HAVE IT A
DIFFERENT WAY RIGHT NOW IF
REMOVING THE
AND I BELIEVE THAT
SECTION ALSO CONCERNS ALLOWING
WHAT WHAT IS AN ALLOWED
MATERIAL.
RIGHT.
SO THERE MIGHT EVEN BE FURTHER
DENHA THAT THAT'S NOT RIGHT.
SO I MEAN I WOULD AGREE THAT IT
SEEMS LIKE A SEPARATE
DISCUSSION AND I GUESS I DON'T
HAVE AN OPINION ON THE
MECHANICS OF HOW WE DO IT
.
YEAH, I GUESS IF IT IF IT
WOULDN'T REQUIRE US KICKING IT
BACK TO FIRST READING DAT DAT
DAT MY RESPONSE YOU WERE TOO
ADVANCED TO ORGANIZE IN ITS
TOTALITY NOW YOU NOTICE IF YOU
LIKE THE UH SECTIONS AT THE
TIME OF THE ADOPTION MY ADVICE
WOULD BE FIND THOSE SECTIONS.
>> YEAH OK SO I D RESPECT MR.
LEONARD BUT I RESERVE THE RIGHT
TO EVALUATE THAT BECAUSE I
DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
MATERIALITY OF THOSE CHANGES
JUST SITTING RIGHT HERE I'M ARE
INCLINED TO DISAGREE WITH YOU.
I JUST WANT TO NOT ASSUME THAT
RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EVALUATE
THAT.
HMM.
MM HMM.
OK, I I AM NOT AN ATTORNEY BUT
I ALSO UNDER I SAY APPRECIATE
THE LOGIC OF WHAT MR. LEONARD
IS SAYING AND JUST IN THE IN
THE INTEREST OF EFFICIENCY I
THINK IT'S EASIER TO MOVE IT
FORWARD AND STRIKE THAT IF ONCE
I'M ASSUMING WE'LL GET MORE
INFORMATION STAFF WILL GET US
MORE INFORMATION SO THAT WE CAN
BE INFORMED WHEN IT COMES NEXT
TIME RATHER THAN HAVING TO
WRITE A WHOLE SEPARATE
RESOLUTION AND ORDINANCE
CHANGES TO ME THAT SEEMS THE
MORE EFFICIENT WAY TO GO SO
I'LL BE VOTING NO
WE'RE TRYING
TO THIS ONE FOR AND WITH FIRES
OF THIS IT IS
FULL APPARENTLY
AND APPEARS TO BE UH
MR.
LEONARD IS THERE A SECTION
NUMBER YOU CAN CITE THAT YOU'RE
STRIKING THAT THAT THE
ORDINANCE BUT THE ORDER?
>> YES, I'M SORRY FIVE POINT
SEVEN.
>> THANK YOU
ALL I THE BOTTOM
OF OUR DENHA NO COUNTERMARCH 01
NO MURTALA, NO CUSTOMER IRE, NO
CUSTOMER ACTION.
YES.
ELSEWHERE BRIGS YES.
THAT'S MARCANO CUSTOMER DISH NO
I'M SORRY BUT CAN YOU REPEAT
THAT I'M SORRY.
>> NO THANK YOU.
SORRY CUSTOMER HARRISON ABSENT
CUSTOMER WATSON NO CUSTOMER
MALLICK YES MOTION FAILS
FURTHER DISCUSSION SO SOME
MAINO I HAVE RECENTLY RAISED
SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT SORT
OF THE MERITS OF HOW TO
CONSIDER DESIGN REVIEW BOARD AS
CAN HAPPEN IN A YEAR ONE CAN
GET SOME FEEDBACK FROM THE
COMMUNITY.
BOTH QUESTIONS FROM MEMBERS
OF OUR OWN DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
FROM DESIGN PROFESSIONAL, FROM
FOUR FORMER PLANNING MANAGERS
FROM AND FROM LOTS OF FOLKS WHO
ARE AROUND THE COMMUNITY AS
WELL WHO HAVE JUST RAISED
QUESTIONS, YOU KNOW, GOOD AND
BAD OF WHETHER THIS YOU THE
MERITS OF OF THE PROCESS BY
WHICH WE TAKE THIS.
I THINK WE CAN ALL WHAT SEEMS
TO BE CLEAR TO ME IS THAT THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD HASN'T
NECESSARILY RESULTED IN OUR
COMMUNITIES EXPECTATIONS AND IT
HAS ADDED ADDITIONAL PROCESS
AND TIME THAT HASN'T RESULTED
IN MAYBE THE SAME THE OUTCOMES
THAT WE MIGHT HOPE.
>> AND YET WHAT I CONSISTENTLY
HAVE HEARD PRA BUBLEY MORE THAN
ANYTHING ELSE ABOUT DESIGN,
ABOUT BUILDING IN OUR COMMUNITY
IS DESIGN AND SO I AM I HAVE
BEEN INTERESTED IN FIGURING OUT
WAYS THAT WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
ADDRESS THAT AND CURRENTLY WE
HAVE A COMMISSION THAT IS
COMPRISED OF DESIGN
PROFESSIONALS AND AND GREAT
FOLKS THAT ARE VOLUNTEERING
THEIR TIME WITH THE COMMUNITY
AND SOMETIMES IT'S NICE TO
ENGAGE FOLKS WHILE THEY'RE
STILL WORKING AND VOLUNTEERING
AT THE CITY AND GET THEIR
THOUGHTS, THEIR INSIGHT BEFORE
SORT OF THANKING THEM FOR THEIR
TIME IN THEIR SERVICE.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT THERE'S
SUPPORT FOR THAT AND I THINK
THERE'S MAYBE CONCERNS ABOUT
TAKING THAT APPROACH AND SO I'M
NOT GOING TO VOTE NO ON THIS
TONIGHT.
HOWEVER, MY CONCERNS REMAIN AND
I THINK THE COMMUNITY CONCERNS
LARGE REMAIN AROUND THIS ISSUE
AND SO PEOPLE LOVE OUR DOWNTOWN
AS THEY SHOULD AND WE WANT THEM
TO AND PART OF THAT IS THE
ESTHETIC NATURE OF IT.
IT'S NOT JUST SIMPLY THE
DEVELOPMENT PEOPLE WANT MORE
THAN THAT AND THEY EXPECT MORE
OF THAT AND THEY SHOULD AND SO
I THINK WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT A
WAY THAT WE CAN MOVE FORWARD ON
THAT.
AND I THINK THERE'S BEEN SOME
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT HOW WE
MIGHT BE ABLE TO MOVE THAT
FORWARD WITHIN CODE CHANGES.
>> BUT I'M GOING TO BE LOOKING
FOR OPPORTUNITIES, TALKING TO
STAFF ABOUT HOW WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO GAIN SOME SOME TRACTION
ON THIS ISSUE BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK SIMPLY SAYING WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE MORE CREATIVITY, WE
DON'T HAVE VOLUNTARY DESIGN
GUIDELINES IS REALLY GOING TO
MOVE THE NEEDLE.
THE REALITY IS THESE HAVE BEEN
VOLUNTARY CREATIVE FLEXIBILITY
EXISTS TODAY.
>> THIS IS WHAT WE HAVE.
>> SO IT'S NOT A MATTER
OF WE'RE GOING TO GET SUDDENLY
GET MORE CREATIVE AND IN MY
OPINION I THINK WE'VE GOT SOME
CHALLENGES AND OTHER
COMMUNITIES HAVE HAD MADE SOME
GAINS IN THIS AREA.
>> I THINK WE CAN TO I WANT TO
POINT OUT THAT THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR DOES HAVE DOWNTOWN DESIGN
GUIDELINES THAT ARE PUBLISHED
ON THE WEBSITE THAT ARE
PROVIDED VARIOUS POINTS
THROUGHOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS INCLUDES ITEMS SUCH AS
IDENTIFY AND THEN REINFORCE THE
POSITIVE CHARACTERISTIC
OF ADJACENT SITES, DESIGN
SIDEWALK LEVEL FEATURES AND
FACILITIES TO PROVIDE
ENRICHMENT OF THE PEDESTRIAN
EXPERIENCE, ORIENT THE BUILDING
LOCATION TO BEST ACCOMMODATE
CLIMATE RAINFALL AND AREA
DRAINAGE PATTERNS.
IT'S IT'S AN INCREDIBLY
COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE TO WHAT WE
EXPECT AND WHAT OUR COMMUNITY
AN EXPRESSION AND DESIGN
OF WHAT OUR COMMUNITY VALUES
ARE.
>> SO I WOULD RECOMMEND WE
MAYBE PUT THIS IN THE CONTEXT
OF THESE MATERIALS LIVE
ELSEWHERE AND ARE ALSO VERY
CLEARLY STATED AND SO HAVING
SOMEBODY ELSE JUST SAY I'M
GOING TO READ THIS FOR YOU AND
TELL YOU HOW TO DO IT VERSUS
PUTTING IT BACK ON THE
DEVELOPER TO FOLLOW THESE
GUIDELINES, IT SEEMS LIKE THE
REDUNDANT STEP THAT WE WANT TO
GET RID OF .
SO I SUPPORTED THE AMENDMENT
AND I APPRECIATE WHAT THE
INTENTION IS BUT I DON'T WANT
TO LOSE SIGHT THAT THE CITY HAS
PUT A LOT OF TIME AND EFFORT
AND THOUGHT AND CARE INTO THESE
GUIDELINES THAT ALREADY EXIST
AND SO MAYBE THAT'S SOME
OF WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT IS
JUST HOW DO WE AMPLIFY THAT?
WHAT'S A BETTER USE OF THOSE
MATERIALS BUT TO ACT AS THOUGH
WE'RE STRIPPING AWAY SOMETHING
THAT DOESN'T EXIST IS IS NOT A
CORRECT CHARACTERIZATION
OF WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH THIS
PARTICULAR ITEM ON THE TABLE
RIGHT NOW
.
I WANTED TO ASK MR. LEONARD
WHILE HE'S HERE WHAT ROLE THE
DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES WOULD
PLAY IN THE PLANNING
COMMISSIONS OR ANY OTHER BODIES
OR STAFF MEMBER APPROVAL
PROCESS MOVING FORWARD
.
>> THANK YOU.
SO I STRUGGLED WITH THIS ONE I
THINK BECAUSE YOU KNOW, WE'RE
OFTEN ASKED TO HOLD MULTIPLE
VALUES AT THE SAME TIME AND
BALANCE THEM AND I'M ALL IN FOR
MAKING OUR PROCESS LESS
ONEROUS.
I ONLY WANT IT TO BE AS ONEROUS
AS IT NEEDS TO BE.
AND BUT I THINK YOU KNOW, WE'VE
ALSO SAID AS A BODY THAT WE
CARE ABOUT PLACEMAKING AND THE
QUALITY OF THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT AND I KNOW LIKE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS SAID THAT
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE HEAR.
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT I'M
HEARING LOUD AND CLEAR AND ALSO
FROM EXPERIENCE THAT THE
DESIGNER REVIEW BOARD, YOU
KNOW, HAS HAD A MIXED OUTCOME
INCREMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS
SOMETIMES PERHAPS WORSE THAN
WHAT WE WOULD HAVE WOUND UP
WITH OTHERWISE.
AND I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT
HAVING DESIGN COME KIND OF TOP
DOWN BY COMMITTEE MIGHT IN FACT
RUN COUNTER TO ESTHETIC
PREFERENCES TO HAVE SOME
HETEROGENEITY AND SOME VARIETY
RATHER THAN LIKE THE BASIC MD
THAT APPEALS TO A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
SO ANYWAY, I STRUGGLED WITH
THIS YOU KNOW, AS OF WRITING MY
NEWSLETTER LAST NIGHT,
OF COURSE THAT'S THE LOVELY
THING ABOUT WRITING AND
PUBLISHING A NEWSLETTER.
YOU GET TO EAT YOUR WORDS
LATER.
BUT I DO THINK GIVEN THE FACT
THAT THIS IS ADVISORY THAT IT'S
NOT REALLY LEADING TO
APPRECIABLE BENEFITS FOR THE
CITY IN THE BUILTIN ENVIRONMENT
THAT IT IS CREATING EXTRA TIME
FOR STAFF WHICH WE IS IN SHORT
SUPPLY.
I THINK THIS IS THE RIGHT MOVE
TO SHIFT THE
RESPONSIBILITY TO
PROFESSIONAL PLANNING STAFF AND
TO YOU KNOW, IF WE NEED TO
ADDRESS THE GUIDELINES AT SOME
OTHER POINT.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT A BIG UDC
REWRITE COMING SO THAT WE CAN
ADDRESS THAT THEN.
SO I'LL BE VOTING TO ELIMINATE
TONIGHT DENHA.
>> YES, RAGAZZI YES.
RETAILOR YES ELSEWHERE IHR YES
COVER AKMAN YES.
OUR BRIGS YES.
COUNCILOR CORNELL THAT'S MY
DISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON APSA
CUSTOMER WATSON YES COUNCILOR
MALIK YES.
>> MOTION CARRIES DO YOU SEE
ONE RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO GET THE
PROJECT POTENTIALLY OWNING
PROPERTY AND VOTING REPORTING
ACTION BOARD MEMBER
YES WITH
APOLOGIES AND REGRET LOOK TO
YOUR NEXT MEETING BY COUNCIL
MEMBER THE DENHA SAYING MY
COMPANY WATSON MR DUTTON, DID
YOU HAVE A MOMENT BEFOREHAND?
>> YES, THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANTED TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO WELCOME JOE GIAT
WHO IS SEATED IN THE AUDIENCE.
COULD YOU STAND SO I COULD SEE
YOU?
>> THIS IS HIS FIRST DAY AND
OF COURSE THE SYSTEM CRASHED ON
HIS FIRST DAY BUT HE'S HE'S
STUCK AROUND AND WE'RE THRILLED
TO HAVE HIM HERE AND I JUST
WANTED YOU OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO
PUT A FACE WITH THE NAME HE'S
GOING TO GET AROUND FOR
INDIVIDUAL MEETINGS AND I
WANTED TO ACKNOWLEDGE HIS
PRESENCE.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THANK YOU
.
DO YOU THINK
WE YES.
MAN TAYLOR I AM REQUESTING A
CLOSED SESSION UNDER AMSTELL
FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX EIGHT
SECTION EIGHT ONE EIGHT
REGARDING A PRIVILEGE AND
CONFIDENTIAL COMMUNICATION
PROVIDED TO COUNCIL ON MARCH
16, 2025
OUR DENHA YES
ELSEWHERE.
YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR CUSTOMER ER YES
YES YES CUSTOMER COLONEL
KOSMIDIS YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON APSA
CUSTOMER WATSON YES ELSEWHERE
BALLOT YES MOTION CARRIES
CONCESSION COMPANY OWNER ON
PAPER FOR COMMUNICATIONS FOR A
CITY ATTORNEY.
>> I WOULD JUST LIKE TO DRAW
YOUR ATTENTION TO ITEMS FOR AN
E5 ON TONIGHT'S AGENDA OTHER
THAN THAT, THANK YOU SO MUCH
.
>> OH YEAH.
OK,